Abstract method :-

An abstract class can be considered as a blueprint for other classes. It allows you to create a set of methods 
that must be created within any child classes built from the abstract class. A class which contains one or 
more abstract methods is called an abstract class. An abstract method is a method that has a declaration but 
does not have an implementation. While we are designing large functional units we use an abstract class. When
we want to provide a common interface for different implementations of a component, we use an abstract class.

It is a method which will be having function declaration , but which will be not having function defination or
method defination.

Abstrfact class
and inner class ---- if the class consist of atleast one abstract method then this is called Abstract class
here both  have function defination and declaration 
we cant create the object 

why abstraction is used ?
it is used to hide the implimentation or basically it is used in real time application to creat a blue print 
before creating any project 

from abc import ABC, abstractmethod
abc === > abstract base class 

what is concrete class ?
.it is nothing but if the class , it does not contain any abstract method inside it then it is called concrete 
class 
.If the class doesnot consits of any abstract methods then we can called it as concrete class 


abstfract method === > it is a phenomenon of hiding the data or properties of the class from the user

absraction is a process of hiding the data from the user for the purpose of security 
in abstraction we will come across 2 terms
1. abstract class 
2. abstract method 


abstract method:-
abstract method is a method which consist of only function declaration but not the function defination 
def sam():
    pass 

abstract class:-
. if the class consist of atleast one abstract method , then we can called it as Abstract class 
. it is not possible to creat abstract class and abstract method directly, for that we are going to make use
of abc module 
. from abc module we are going to import the functionalities of a class called ABC(abstract base class) and 
the functionality of abstract method 


NOTE ==>
. It is not possible to creat objects for abstract class  

sysntax to creat abstract method and class is :-

		from abc import ABC, abstractmethod

		class cname(ABC):
			@abstractmethod
			def fname():
				pass


Inheritance:- 

. Inheritance enables us to define a class that takes all the functionality from a parent class and allows us 
to add more. 
. It is a phenomenon of deriving or aquiring the proporties and the functionalities of one class into another 
class
. we go for inheritrance to avoid code redundancy problem 



Polling time in Selenium:- 

The default polling time is 500 mili seconds. So until your wait condition is true and the specified time is
 not over , the WebDriver checks for the element once every 500 mili seconds.


Multi threading:- 
Multithreading is a model of program execution that allows for multiple threads to be created within a 
process, executing independently but concurrently sharing process resources

polymorphism:-
. The literal meaning of polymorphism is the condition of occurrence in different forms. Polymorphism is a 
very important concept in programming. It refers to the use of a single type entity (method, operator or 
object) to represent different types in different scenarios.

. It is a phenomenon of making the methods and operators to work on different objects/functionality/functions


wait :-
The wait commands are essential when it comes to executing Selenium tests. They help to observe and 
troubleshoot issues that may occur due to variation in time lag. While running Selenium tests, it is common 
for testers to get the message “Element Not Visible Exception".




